---
title: Digital context behind revolution
published: false
description: The digital repercussion in the first of October in Spain, and how this makes me wonder about international internet censorship and digital rights issues.  
tags: Networks, social, domain, digital, censorship 
---

I'm not very comfortable speaking about politics, And I won't, as this is not the place to write about it. But I got very interested in the digital role of yesterday. Please! **I completely discourage political comments**, I'm just trying to create a technical analysis, and **this is a technology blog!**

**For the ones who are lost** in the context, I will shortly explain before starting the digital analysis: Catalunya is legally part of Spain, but some of the inhabitants have expressed their desire of being independent. Our constitution states that such an act is not possible, so the steps for allowing this should be changing the constitution under the responsibility of the maximum political parties, create a referendum for letting people vote in such statement, and proceed the result of it. Unfortunately, tensions in Spain lead in an "_illegal_" referendum (as the constitution wasn't changed) and a brutal response from the government against civilians. This would be the short introduction.

Now, **what do I mean with the digital role in this context?**

Social Networks meant a significant role in this situation. But also did some details that played with users liberties here. First of all, let's go back a few days, **when some webpages of .CAT domain where banned**, moreover a .cat domain crackdown was established. Regardless the legal limits this takes, This meant concerns of the users from all Spain, as even if we don't usually check this pages, this meant the oversized control on the internet, [as the EFF explained](https://www.eff.org/es/deeplinks/2017/09/cat-domain-casualty-catalonian-independence-crackdown). This already created a digital concern in users, and some significant characters in the Internet defense (apart from the already mentioned organization) such as Julian Assange, shared opinions. Whatever the reader agrees or not with the journalist opinion, the scope of the public opinion lead in a brand new, global dimension of an internal issue. 

**Internet Freedom** is an important right every user should ask for. We (as spaniards) usually get surprised when are told about seizure of the internet in [China](http://12mars.rsf.org/2014-en/2014/03/10/china-electronic-great-wall-getting-taller/), [Russia](http://12mars.rsf.org/2014-en/2014/03/11/russia-repression-from-the-top-down/), [Iran](http://hyperakt.com/items/archived/iran-censorship-infographic/) and [other countries](http://12mars.rsf.org/2014-en/) and surely our case is not as astonishing to the date, but the main problem is not the size of the issue right now, but what can be laid in the future if such banning is, let's say, _socially_ allowed (alongside other digital problems we are facing since long time ago such as the gag-law) and, the more I investigate about it, the more I find about every country affair with internet censorship. Maybe letting the rest of the world judge our situation is dangerous, as we are exposed to misunderstanding, comments without the right context and, why not, huge shame. But seeing myself in the context spotted in the eyehole of international journalism makes me think about our own perspective of internet censorship and digital issues that _others_ (meaning foreign countries) are facing.

On the other side there's the decentralized movement on the internet. Not long ago, in my city in the South of Spain, there was huge demonstration asking for good health resources. I was particularly surprised that time, as thousands of neighbours came along to demonstrate regardless the age or social condition. Apparently the demonstration was announced in different social media, and everyone got the message, literally everyone! Back then, I already started investigating about the impact of social media in our era, and new ways of communication, and this time, is not different. Even though television was emitting the event, thousands of users were following it from social media (including myself), in my case, and probably in the case of many spaniards and foreigners, looking for a decentralized source of information (in my opinion, more reliable). 
